---
title: Getting started with CPA Marketing
date: 2026-04-19
category: Cpa Marketing
cover_image: /assets/images/cpa-marketinf.jpg
excerpt: Does CPA Marketing Still works in 2026?
---
<p>I have nothing against <em>certified public accountants</em> (heck, one of my favorite uncles is a CPA), but in the marketing world, CPA is actually an acronym that stands for “Cost Per Action.”&nbsp;</p><p>CPA refers to an affiliate commission model where affiliates (often publishers with websites) promote a specific action to their audience in exchange for a flat payment per action from sellers (also called advertisers).&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>In practice, CPA marketing is just a subset of “affiliate marketing,” focusing specifically on payment for a specific action, rather than just a sale. This action could be a video view, a submitted form, a downloaded app, or even a click – but often, the action is still a purchase/sale. It’s just treated differently than the more traditional commission model, which we’ll cover a little later.</p><p>For now, think of CPA as a way to get paid when you drive the completion of certain actions for&nbsp;sellers or advertisers.</p><h2><strong>A Teaser for CPA on ClickBank</strong></h2><p>We’re looking at CPA marketing, but why listen to us at ClickBank ramble on about CPA? What would we know about CPA, anyway?&nbsp;</p><p>Well, one good reason we’re talking about it is because <em>everybody</em> wanted for years – so we finally developed our own CPA model!</p><h2><strong>CPA Marketing Terms Defined</strong></h2><p>Speaking of affiliate managers, there may be some affiliate marketing terms that are new to you if you’re trying out CPA for the first time.&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s break some of the most important ones down for you!&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Affiliate Manager: </strong>The affiliate manager is the individual who manages an affiliate program for a specific vendor, seller, or brand. This person is responsible for finding affiliates, optimizing their performance, and making money for the seller.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Affiliate Marketplace: </strong>The affiliate marketplace is a marketplace where sellers list offers to be promoted, and affiliates can browse and find offers to promote in exchange for a commission.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>CPA</strong>: CPA stands for “Cost Per Action.” On ClickBank, this specific action is the first conversion in a seller’s funnel. With CPA marketing, the affiliate is paid a static amount rather than a percentage portion of the total sale amount.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Conversion</strong>: A conversion is a completed action (typically, a sale).</p><p><strong>Deposit</strong>: Some CPA affiliate networks require vendors to pay forward a deposit that the CPA commission can be paid out of. On ClickBank, the CPA commission is paid out of each sale, so there is no deposit required.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>EPC</strong>: EPC stands for “.” This is the amount of money, on average, that an affiliate will make per click, calculated by taking total affiliate earnings divided by the total number of clicks to an offer page.</p><p><strong>HopLink</strong>: A HopLink is ClickBank’s unique tracking link that affiliates generate to make a commission. Learn more in our .</p><p><strong>Landing Page</strong>: A landing page is a single standalone page that users land on from an ad or other traffic source, for the purpose of completing a certain action. Usually, this action is to sign up for an email list (converting site visitors into leads) in exchange for a lead magnet or resource. To learn more about landing pages, check out our guide on like the pros.</p><p><strong>Refund</strong>: In the affiliate marketing world, some sales result in refunds. It’s inevitable. As an affiliate operating on the RevShare model, you may have to return your commission in the event of a refund, but with CPA, you get a flat commission for a sale – and if a refund happens later, you’re not affected.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>ROI</strong>: ROI stands for “Return on Investment.” ROI is a ratio calculated by taking the amount spent, subtracting it from the amount earned, and dividing it by the initial investment. For example, if I spend $100 on Facebook Ads and I earn $250, then first, I’ll take $250-100 = $150. Then, I’ll divide $150 in net earnings by $100 in ad spend = <strong>1.5</strong>. This means the ROI was 1.5X, or a positive 50% return.</p><p>For our full list of affiliate marketing terms, check out our .</p><h2><strong>How does CPA on ClickBank Work?</strong></h2><p>Now that we’ve covered a lot of the general information about CPA, let’s talk <strong>CPA on ClickBank!&nbsp;</strong></p><p><br></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p>